Supplementary figures, tables and files are referencing an article titled "What lurks in the dark? - An innovative framework for studying diverse wild insect microbiota"

Supplementary Fig. S1: Ordination of host communities composition among sites and seasons (NMDS plot based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity).
Supplementary Fig. S2: Relationship between the explained variance (R2) of bacterial taxa presence and their prevalence.
Supplementary Fig. S3: Proportion of variance explained per microbial taxon by the presence-absence model and the abundance conditional of presence model at the levels of microbial 16S-V4 OTUs (a), 16S-V4 ZOTUs (b) and Wolbachia COI ZOTUs (c).
Supplementary Fig. S4: Residual associations in the presence-absence model and the abundance conditional of presence model among bacterial taxa at the levels of microbial 16S-V4 OTUs (a), 16S-V4 ZOTUs (b) and Wolbachia COI ZOTUs (c).

Supplementary Table S1: Details of the sampling sites and the numbers of processed insect specimens passing the quality criteria.
Supplementary Table S2: List of sample barcodes, species and genotype assignments, along with their sexes, sampling locations and accession numbers.
Supplementary Table S3: Numbers and proportions of 16S rRNA reads classified as contaminants, spikeins, and symbionts across the samples, identified by the QUACK script.
Supplementary Table S4: List of 16S rRNA OTUs, their prevalence and abundance across samples.
Supplementary Table S5: Comparison of Wolbachia presence between COI and 16S-V4 datasets.
Supplementary Table S6: The results of the HMSC (Hierarchical Modelling of Species Communites) analysis

Supplementary File 1: Compressed table of COI ZOTUs read numbers and taxonomic assignments across the samples.
Supplementary File 2: Compressed, decontaminated table of 16S-V4 ZOTU read numbers and taxonomic assignments across the samples.
Supplementary File 3: Compressed, decontaminated table of estimated 16S-V4 ZOTU copies and taxonomic assignments across the samples.
